The Project Gutenberg EBook of Connecticut Wide Awake Songster, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Connecticut Wide Awake Songster

Author: Various

Editor: John W. Hutchinson
        Benjamin Jepson

Release Date: February 16, 2016 [EBook #51226]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONNECTICUT WIDE AWAKE SONGSTER ***




Produced by Emmy, MFR and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)










    CONNECTICUT

    WIDE-AWAKE

    SONGSTER.


    EDITED BY
    JOHN W. HUTCHINSON,
    OF THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY OF SINGERS;

    ASSISTED BY
    BENJAMIN JEPSON.


    “Lincoln and Liberty.”


    NEW YORK:
    O. HUTCHINSON, PUBLISHER,
    272 GREENWICH STREET.
    1860.




PURCHASING AGENCY.


FOR the accommodation of my numerous friends in various parts of the
country who prefer not to be at the expense of frequent visits to New
York, I have made arrangements with some of the most reliable houses in
the city to supply those who may favor me with their orders for

    BOOKS, STATIONERY,
    Hats and Caps, Dry-Goods,
    DRUGS, HARDWARE, FURNITURE,
    CARPETS, WALL-PAPERS, GROCERIES,
    ETC., ETC.,

on such terms as can not but be satisfactory to the purchasers.

The disposition on the part of many merchants to overreach their
customers when they have an opportunity of doing so, renders it almost
as necessary for merchants to give references to their customers as
for customers to give references of their standing to the merchants;
hence I have been careful to make arrangements only with honorable and
responsible houses who can be fully relied on.

As my trade with those houses will be large in the aggregate, they can
afford to allow me a trifling commission and still supply my customers
at their _lowest rates_, which I will engage shall be as low as any
regular houses will supply them.

My friends and others are requested to try the experiment by forwarding
me orders for anything they may chance to want, and if not satisfied, I
will not ask them to repeat the experiment.

Those visiting the city are invited to give me a call before making
their purchases, and test the prices of the houses to whom I can with
confidence introduce them.

Bills for small lots of goods, if sent by express, can be paid for on
delivery, or arrangements can be made for supplying responsible parties
on time.

Address,

    =O. HUTCHINSON, New York=.




    CONNECTICUT

    WIDE-AWAKE

    SONGSTER.


    EDITED BY
    JOHN W. HUTCHINSON,
    OF THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY OF SINGERS;

    ASSISTED BY
    BENJAMIN JEPSON.


    “Lincoln and Liberty.”


    NEW YORK:
    O. HUTCHINSON, PUBLISHER,
    272 GREENWICH STREET.
    1860.




    Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, by

    JOHN W. HUTCHINSON,

    In the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of the United States for
    the Southern District of New York.


    DAVIES & KENT,

    STEREOTYPERS AND ELECTROTYPERS,

    _113 Nassau Street, N. Y._




Contents.


          PAGE

    The Republican Platform                                        5
    Lincoln and Victory                                            9
    Strike for the Right                                          10
    Hurrah Chorus                                                 11
    Hurrah for Abe Lincoln                                        12
    Lincoln and Liberty                                           14
    The People’s Nominee                                          15
    Flag of the Brave                                             17
    Come On!                                                      18
    Abe of Illinois                                               19
    Our Country’s Call                                            20
    The Grand Rally                                               21
    Lincoln Going to Washington                                   22
    For Freedom and Reform                                        24
    Lincoln and Hamlin                                            25
    Campaign Song                                                 26
    Ridden by the Slave Power                                     27
    “Vive La Honest Abe”                                          29
    The Gathering of the Republican Army                          30
    Lincoln’s Nomination                                          31
    Freedom’s Call                                                32
    Hope for the Slave                                            33
    Freemen Win when Lincoln Leads                                34
    Uncle Sam’s Farm                                              35
    Song of Freedom                                               37
    The “Neb-Rascality.”                                          38
    Free Soil Chorus                                              40
    The Bay State Hurrah                                          42
    For Liberty                                                   43
    Voice of Freedom                                              44
    The Cause of Liberty                                          45
    Lincoln, the Pride of the Nation                              46
    Rallying Song                                                 47
    Abe Lincoln is the Man                                        48
    The Fate of a Fowler                                          49
    Rallying Song of Rocky Mountain Club                          51
    The Liberty Army                                              52
    Have You Heard the Loud Alarm?                                53
    Hark! ye Freemen                                              55
    From Bad to Worse                                             56
    The March of the Free                                         57
    Our Flag is There                                             58
    Lincoln and Victory                                           59
    “Wide Awake”                                                  61
    We’ll Send Buchanan Home                                      62
    Rallying Song                                                 64
    Lincoln                                                       65
    Song                                                          66
    Campaign Song                                                 68
    Freemen, Banish All Your Fears                                69
    “Wide-Awake Club” Song                                        70
    A Jolly Good Crew We’ll Have                                  71




THE

REPUBLICAN PLATFORM.


_Resolved_, That we, the delegated representatives of the Republican
electors of the United States, in convention assembled, in the
discharge of the duty we owe to our constituents and our country, unite
in the following declarations:

_First_—That the history of the nation, during the last four years, has
fully established the propriety and necessity of the organization and
perpetuation of the Republican party, and that the causes which called
it into existence are permanent in their nature, and now, more than
ever before, demand its peaceful and constitutional triumph.

_Second_—That the maintenance of the principles promulgated in the
Declaration of Independence, and embodied in our federal Constitution,
is essential to the preservation of our Republican institutions, and
that the federal Constitution, the rights of the States, and the Union
of the States must and shall be preserved.

_Third_—That to the Union of the States this nation owes its
unprecedented increase in population; its surprising development of
material resources; its rapid augmentation of wealth; its happiness
at home and its honor abroad, and we hold in abhorrence all schemes
for disunion, come from whatever source they may; and we congratulate
the country that no Republican member of Congress has uttered or
countenanced a threat of disunion, so often made by Democratic members
of Congress, without rebuke and with applause from their political
associates; and we denounce those threats of disunion, in case of a
popular overthrow of their ascendancy, as denying the vital principles
of a free government, and as an avowal of contemplated treason, which
it is the imperative duty of an indignant people strongly to rebuke and
forever silence.

_Fourth_—That the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States,
and especially the right of each State to order and control its own
domestic institutions, according to its own judgment exclusively,
is essential to that balance of power on which the perfection and
endurance of our political faith depend, and we denounce the lawless
invasion by armed force of any state or territory, no matter under what
pretext, as among the gravest of crimes.

_Fifth_—That the present Democratic administration has far exceeded
our worst apprehensions, in its measureless subserviency to the
exactions of a sectional interest, as is especially evident in its
desperate exertions to force the infamous Lecompton Constitution upon
the protesting people of Kansas—in construing the personal relation
between master and servant, to involve an unqualified property in
persons—in its attempted enforcement everywhere, on land and sea,
through the intervention of Congress and the federal courts, of the
extreme pretensions of a purely local interest, and in its general and
unvarying abuse of the power intrusted to it by a confiding people.

_Sixth_—That the people justly view with alarm the reckless
extravagance which pervades every department of the federal government;
that a return to rigid economy and accountability is indispensable
to arrest the system of plunder of the public treasury by favored
partisans; while the recent startling developments of fraud and
corruption at the federal metropolis show that an entire change of
administration is imperatively demanded.

_Seventh_—That the new dogma that the constitution of its own force
carries slavery into any or all the territories of the United States,
is a dangerous political heresy, at variance with the explicit
provisions of that instrument itself, with contemporaneous exposition,
and with legislative and judicial precedent, is revolutionary in its
tendency, and subversive of the peace and harmony of the country.

_Eighth_—That the normal condition of all the territory of the United
States is that of freedom; that as our republican fathers, when
they had abolished slavery in all our national territory, ordained
that no person should be deprived of life, liberty, or property
without due process of law, it becomes our duty, by legislation,
whenever legislation is necessary, to maintain this provision of
the constitution against all attempts to violate it; and we deny
the authority of Congress, of a territorial legislature, or of any
individuals, to give legal existence to slavery in any territory of the
United States.

_Ninth_—That we brand the recent reopening of the African slave trade,
under the cover of our national flag, aided by perversions of judicial
power, as a crime against humanity, a burning shame to our country and
age, and we call upon Congress to take prompt and efficient measures
for the total and final suppression of that execrable traffic.

_Tenth_—That in the recent vetoes by their federal governors of the
acts of the Legislature of Kansas and Nebraska, prohibiting slavery
in those territories, we find a practical illustration of the boasted
Democratic principle of non-intervention and popular sovereignty,
embodied in the Kansas and Nebraska bill, and a denunciation of the
deception and fraud involved therein.

_Eleventh_—That Kansas should of right be immediately admitted as a
State under the constitution recently formed and adopted by her people,
and accepted by the House of Representatives.

_Twelfth_—That while providing revenue for the support of the general
government, by duties upon imposts, sound policy requires such an
adjustment of these imposts as to encourage the development of the
industrial interest of the whole country, and we commend that policy
of national exchanges which secures to the workingmen liberal wages,
to agriculture remunerating prices, to mechanics and manufacturers an
adequate reward for their skill, labor, and enterprise, and to the
nation commercial prosperity and independence.

_Thirteenth_—That we protest against any sale or alienation to others
of the public lands held by actual settlers, and against any view of
the free homestead policy, which regards the settlers as paupers or
supplicants for public bounty, and we demand the passage by Congress
of the complete and satisfactory homestead measure, which has already
passed the house.

_Fourteenth_—That the National Republican party is opposed to any
change in our naturalization laws, or any State legislation by which
the rights of citizenship, hitherto accorded to immigrants from foreign
lands shall be abridged or impaired; and in favor of giving a full and
efficient protection to the rights of all classes of citizens, whether
native or naturalized, both at home or abroad.

_Fifteenth_—That appropriations by Congress for river and harbor
improvements of a national character, required for the accommodation
and security of an existing commerce, are authorized by the
constitution, and justified by an obligation of the government to
protect the lives and property of its citizens.

_Sixteenth_—That a railroad to the Pacific Ocean is imperatively
demanded by the interests of the whole country; that the federal
government ought to render immediate and efficient aid in its
construction, and that, as preliminary thereto, a daily overland mail
should be promptly established.

_Seventeenth_—Finally, having thus set forth our distinctive principles
and views, we invite the co-operation of all citizens, however
differing on other questions, who substantially agree with us in their
affirmance and support.




CONNECTICUT WIDE-AWAKE SONGSTER.




LINCOLN AND VICTORY.

BY W. SCOTT.


    ARISE, arise, Republicans!
      And bear the banner of the free
    To where the star of empire lights
      Us on to victory.
              Then let the watch-word be
              Lincoln and Victory!
              Sound it from sea to sea,
              Lincoln and Victory!

    Arise, arise, Republicans!
      And sweep the prairies of the West,
    The teeming hill-sides of the East,
      For Lincoln of the West.
            Then let the watch-word be, etc.

    Arise, arise, Republicans!
      Our leader is an honest man;
    We’ll follow on through good or ill—
      For Lincoln leads the van.
            Then let the watch-word be, etc.




STRIKE FOR THE RIGHT.


    ONCE more to the combat with rekindled zeal,
    Our flag to the breeze, and our hands to the steel!
    We strike for the right, and we ask no delay,
    We’re ready and eager to rush to the fray.
      Strike for the right, men, strike for the right!
      Close up your ranks, men, show them your might!
      Rulers may tremble, and power may quail;
      We strike for the right, and the right shall prevail.

    Our forests and lakes, from Wisconsin to Maine,
    Send out their brave sons to the conflict again;
    While mountain and prairie with camp-fires aglow,
    Re-echo the war-cry and welcome the blow.
                        Strike for the right, etc.

    The trumpets are sounding, the battle’s begun,
    There’s danger to face, and there’s work to be done:
    The timid and sluggard may shrink from the fray,
    The glory compensates our struggles to-day.
                        Strike for the right, etc.

    Already their peril is felt by our foes,
    Already they falter and shrink from our blows
    The shout of our comrades rings thrilling and clear:
    The victory’s certain, the victory’s near.
                        Strike for the right, etc.

    A cheer for our leaders, the twin-hearted braves!
    A cheer for the banner that over us waves!
    With Lincoln and Hamlin we’ve nothing to fear:
    The victory’s certain, the victory’s near.
                        Strike for the right, etc.




HURRAH CHORUS.


    FOR Lincoln now we sing our lay,
      Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
    For he’s the man, say what you may,
      Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
    Now Illinois has one great son,
    Who over the course swift will run.
      He is the man, an honest one,
      Oh, he’s the man for me.

    Old Abe can maul, or he can thrash,
      Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
    He’ll give it to your Loco trash,
      Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
    Your two-faced man is naught to him,
    E’en now his prospects are all dim,
      Abe is the man, an honest man,
      He is the man for me.

    Abe is not rich in worldly goods,
      Oh no, oh no, oh no!
    But in his thoughts, his works, his words,
      He’s true, he’s true, he’s true.
    ’Tis he who loves his wife and friends,
    And o’er his duty daily bends.
      He is the man, an honest man,
      He is the man for me.

    Upon the Eagle he shall ride,
      Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
    And of our nation be the pride,
      Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
    While Douglas shall remain below,
    And his own horn still have to blow.
      Abe is the man, an honest man,
      He is the man for me.




HURRAH FOR ABE LINCOLN!

_Tune_—“Boatman Dance.”


    HURRAH! hurrah! did you hear the news?
      The Democrats have got the blues;
    They’re puzzled now, and all afraid,
      Because we’ve nominated Abe.
          Then shout, freemen, shout!
          Shout, freemen, shout!
                We’ll all unite
                And bravely fight
          For the Star of Freedom’s dawning.
              Hi! ho! we’ll put them through,
              Split their rails, and haul them too;
              Hi! ho! we’ll put them through,
              Split their rails, and haul them too.

    In all their ranks they can not find
      A candidate to suit their mind;
    They kick and squirm, but ’tis no use,
      Their game is up, their platform’s loose.
          Then shout, freemen, shout!
          Shout, freemen, shout!
                We’ll all unite
                And bravely fight
          For the Star of Freedom’s dawning.
                          Hi! ho! etc.

    They know that they will lose the day
      If they take up with _Stephen A._;
    And so to add to their humbug swell,
      I think they’d better take up _Bell_.
          Then shout, freemen, shout!
          Shout, freemen, shout!
                We’ll all unite
                And bravely fight
          For the Star of Freedom’s dawning.
                          Hi! ho! etc.

    I hear they’ve bought an old steam-tug,
      On which to place poor little DUG;
    For President too late they’ve found
      His coat tail comes too near the ground.
          Then shout, freemen, shout!
          Shout, freemen, shout!
                We’ll all unite
                And bravely fight
          For the Star of Freedom’s dawning.
                          Hi! ho! etc.

    We’ll give them HAM enough this fall,
      To satisfy them one and all;
    Served up in style quite neat and plain,
      Just imported from _Old Maine_.
          Then shout, freemen, shout!
          Shout, freemen, shout!
                We’ll all unite
                And bravely fight
          For the Star of Freedom’s dawning.
                          Hi! ho! etc.

    Hurrah! hurrah! we are sure to win,
      And the way we’ll beat will be a sin;
    The coming year’s impending blast
    Will show them they have crowed their last.
          Then shout, freemen, shout!
          Shout, freemen, shout!
                We’ll all unite
                And bravely fight
          For the Star of Freedom’s dawning.
              Hi! ho! we’ll put them through,
              Split their rails, and haul them too;
              Hi! ho! we’ll put them through,
              Split their rails, and haul them too.




LINCOLN AND LIBERTY.

_Air_—“Rosin the Bow.”


    HURRAH for the choice of the nation!
      Our chieftain so brave and so true;
    We’ll go for the great Reformation—
      For Lincoln and Liberty too!

    With the East and the West linked together,
      Our candidates never can fail,
    For the weight of a slave a’nt a feather
      When freemen get into the scale.

    For “Protection” the party will rally,
      “Free homes for the homeless” as well,
    Then we’ll hear every mountain and valley
      Ring forth to “Free Trade” its death-knell.

    Then up with our banner so glorious,
      The star-spangled red-white-and-blue,
    We’ll fight till our flag is victorious,
      For Lincoln and Liberty too!




THE PEOPLE’S NOMINEE.

BY KARL KRITON.

_Air_—“Nelly Bly.”


    REPUBLICANS! with peerless might,
      Proudly lead the van!
    Strike for freedom! strike for right!
      “Old Abe’s” an honest man.
    He, a noble President,
      The ship of state shall guide;
    While o’er a nation’s senators,
      Hamlin shall preside.
        Hi! Lincoln! ho! Lincoln!
          An honest man for me;
        I’ll sing for you—I’ll shout for you—
          The People’s nominee.

    Once we had a compromise,
      A check to Slavery’s wrong;
    Douglas crushed the golden prize,
      To help himself along.
    Then the North, and then the West,
      Arose with giant power;
    Pierce succumbed to the South’s behest,
      But Douglas had to cower.
          Hi! Douglas! sly Douglas!
            A senator would be;
          So he tried the “Squatter dodge,”
            And went for Kansas free.

    Democrats, (or “office rats,”)
      Met to nominate;
    “Fire-eaters” came, all aflame,
      To sever State from State;
    Their slave-code, (_and Covode_,)
      Caused the “Softs” to quake;
    The “Little Giant,” now defiant,
      No slave-code would take.
          Oh! alas! beef is scarce!
            To the North they go:
          See once more, at Baltimore,
            Our _united_ foe!

    But the People met _en masse_,
      In the boundless West;
    Of Freedom’s sons a noble class!
      Some loved Seward best;
    Chase, McLean, and Bates, I ween,
      Are worthy such a call;
    “Old honest Abe’s” the People’s choice,
      And we’ll roll on the ball.
          Hi! Lincoln! ho! Lincoln!
            President shall be;
          One and all, roll on the ball,
            For the People’s nominee.

    No missile sent, with ill intent,
      Across the Ohio River;
    The South’s dark crime, in God’s own time,
      She’ll wipe away forever.
    Yet here we stand, proud Freedom’s band,
      No compromise with wrong;
    For truth and right we’ll bravely fight,
      Be this our battle-song—
          Hi! Lincoln! brave Lincoln!
            President shall be;
          We’ll one and all _vote_ this Fall
            For the People’s nominee.




FLAG OF THE BRAVE.


    REPUBLICANS, list to the shouting
      Of armies of freemen afar;
    They come from each valley and mountain,
      To gather their ranks for the war;
    That shout is the watch-word of freemen,
      Their banner is borne by the brave;
    On its folds behold Lincoln and Hamlin,
      The Union—they’re able to save.
          Huzza, then, for Lincoln and Hamlin,
          Let the Banner of Liberty wave;
          With Lincoln and Hamlin, our bosoms
          Will beat to the march of the brave.

    Come North and come South all together,
      If shoulder to shoulder we stand,
    The Flag of our Country forever
      Will wave o’er our prosperous land;
    No foreign aggressor can fright us,
      Our colors still proudly shall wave;
    With Lincoln and Hamlin to lead us,
      We’ll stand by the Flag of the Brave.
                            Huzza, then, etc.

    Away, then, ye carpers and croakers,
      Away with your snarling and spite;
    The bright sun of Freedom is rising,
      Illuming political night.
    In the East see its radiance glowing
      And gilding the earth with its rays;
    See Falsehood and Ignorance flying
      Like owls from its glorious blaze.
                            Huzza, then, etc.




COME ON!

BY GEO. S. BURLEIGH.


    HO! hearts of Freemen, true and brave,
      With honest ardor beating,
    A nation, robbed by every knave,
    Calls on us now to help and save—
    To snatch her glory from its grave,
      And looks for no retreating;
              March to the music, boys!
                Freedom forever!
              Victory waits for our
                Earnest endeavor!

    The day of final doom has come
      To Slavery’s dark aggression,
    And gathering like a whirlwind’s hum,
    A People’s voice for trump and drum,
    We’ll charge the swooping Dragon home,
      The red fiend of Oppression!
                March! etc.

    Free hands shall till that virgin soil—
      The sunset’s blooming neighbor;
    And there, where simple freemen toil,
    Beyond the slave-mart’s bloody moil,
    No chain shall clank, nor whip shall coil,
      On limbs of honest labor!
                March! etc.

    Avaunt the coward’s cringing plea,
      The dread of “Dissolution;”
    Our free soil _ever shall be free_,
    And threatful braggarts soon may see
    Their Treason’s Harvest-Home shall be
      To reap their own confusion!
                March! etc.

    Then rally! rally! True and Brave,
      Come on for God and Freedom!
    Before eternal justice wave,
    From heaven the crime-avenging glaive,
    And Ruin howl above our grave
      As over ancient Edom!
              March to the music, boys,
                Freedom forever!
              Victory waits for our
                Earnest endeavor!




ABE OF ILLINOIS.


    FROM many a freeman’s home and hearth
      There comes a shout of joy,
    (Who loves a soul of genuine worth,)
      For Abe, of Illinois.

    No servile politician he—
      “True gold, without alloy;”
    Unanimous our vote will be
      For Abe, of Illinois.

    No! not for party—not for spoil
      Will he his gift[A] employ,
    But for his country’s good will toil,
      “Old Abe,” of Illinois.

    Our hero once was short of pence,
      An humble farmer’s boy,
    We _know_ he’ll teach us how to “Fence—”
      “Old Abe,” of Illinois.

    To fence the Union all around
      He’ll work—_he will not toy_;
    The cause is earnest and profound,
      For Abe, of Illinois.

[A] The highest gift of the Nation—the office of President.




OUR COUNTRY’S CALL.

_Tune_—“Hail, Columbia.”


    AWAKE! ye sons of freedom, rise!
    Can ye not hear your country’s cries?
      Were ye but told that foes invade,
      That rifles flash and deadly blade
        Seek to destroy her glorious peace,
        How swift your arms to bring release!

    Strengthen your arms! lest dangers come
    More fearful than the victim’s doom;
      Lest faction riot through our land,
      Lest brother, slain by brother’s hand,
        Calls loud to Heaven for vengeance on
        This happiest nation ’neath the sun.

    Shall this, our land so gifted, be
    Cramped by a section’s tyranny?
      Shall North, or South, or East, or West,
      Claim despotism o’er the rest?
        Nay, let us now and ever be
        Joined in fond equality.

    Our fathers fought for liberty,
    They bled and died, and now shall we
      Deny to others what they gave
      To us, their children, from the grave?
        Can we still cherish Slavery,
        And call our country still, “The Free?”

    Then, onward! patriots, _poll_-ward, on!
    Till your glorious cause be won,
      On! for right and liberty,
      On! for just equality,
        On! and let the watchword be,
        “Lincoln! Hamlin! Victory!”




THE GRAND RALLY.


    FROM hilltop, from valley, from mountain, from plain,
      Come, Freemen, assemble, assemble;
    The glad shout of Freedom send forth like a flame,
      At its sound shall fell Tyranny tremble.
            From woodland and heather,
            Come gather, come gather,
    And unfurl the bright flag of Freedom forever.
            ’Tis the province of thee,
            Being sons of the Free,
    To combat with tyrants, ’tis Freedom’s decree:

    From the forge, from the mines, from the anvil we call
      Working-men, sons of toil! ’tis thy right
    To combat with those who would labor enthrall,
      And be foremost of all in the fight;
            From workshops and fields,
            Come, Labor, reveal
    Honest faces which oil, smoke, and dust can’t conceal,
            Make every sledge that you sling
            On the firm anvil ring
    The bold song of Freedom that Labor is King.

    For liberty, “Lincoln,” for “Hamlin,” our cause,
      And a free public domain, we fight;
    A free Constitution, correct honest Laws,
      Elevation of labor and right.
            We swear in our might,
            On this spot to unite,
    For “Free Soil” in our natures we love it;
            The public domain shall be
            As unpledged and free
    As the eagle that hovers above it.




LINCOLN GOING TO WASHINGTON.

BY S. C. M.

_Air_—“Jimmy, Crack Corn.”


    ABE LINCOLN is our pioneer;
    He’s split the rails, the ship he’ll steer,
    And he will cut a pathway clear
          From Illinois to Washington.

    The sounding thunder of his blows
    From Maine to California goes,
    And echoing o’er all States, it flows
          From Illinois to Washington.

    He’ll steady guide the Ship of State,
    While Hamlin _brave_ will be first-mate—
    Sham Democrats must meet their fate:
          His path is clear to Washington.

    Inspired with victory for the right,
    We’ll break the oppressor’s yoke with might,
    And Slavery’s crew we’ll put to flight,
          When Lincoln goes to Washington.

    Our Territory shall be free,
    Slavery’s curse, with hades’ glee,
    Shall stain no soil of liberty
          When Lincoln goes to Washington.

    A “Tariff” too we’ll have, we will,
    A “Homestead Bill,” with domicil,
    Free land for all, that all may till,
          When Lincoln goes to Washington.

    We’ll wrest the wrong from power and place;
    We’ll give their rights to _all_ the race,
    And stop official theft with grace,
          When Lincoln goes to Washington.

    Convention _one_—Convention _two_!
    Happy pair, in fragments flew;
    And Bell may think he’ll go straight through
          But _Lincoln_ goes to Washington.




FOR FREEDOM AND REFORM.

BY F. A. B. SIMKINS.

_Air_—“We are a Band of Freemen.”


    HO! ye men of every station,
    Join with us for Reformation,
    And for Freedom for the Nation—
          We’re for Freedom and Reform.
              We’re a band of freemen,
              We’re a band of freemen,
              We’re a band of freemen,
              We’re for Freedom and Reform.

    On the “sacred side” forever,
    We’ll sustain “oppression” never,
    But we’ll fight for “justice” ever—
          We’re for Freedom and Reform.

    We’ll dry up disunion screechers,
    And wipe out the slave-code teachers,
    And cashier the slave-trade preachers—
          We’re for Freedom and Reform.

    We will oust the treasury robbers,
    And the host of hireling fobbers,
    And the horde of “live-oak jobbers”—
          We’re for Freedom and Reform.

    With “Old Abe” to go before us,
    And the flag of Freedom o’er us,
    We will shout the sounding chorus—
          We’re for Freedom and Reform.




LINCOLN AND HAMLIN.

A CAMPAIGN SONG BY A VETERAN.

The following Campaign Song was written by Samuel Copp, Esq., aged 75
years, for the “Lincoln and Hamlin Club” of Stonington, Conn., a place
rendered memorable by the gallant repulse of a naval attack by the
British, on the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th of Aug., 1814, in which four
days’ contest Mr. Copp took a part. The original song is furnished to
us by the author’s friend, Samuel C. Brewster, Esq.:


    WHAT mean the joyful shouts that ring
      So gladly through the air?
    A better day is opening—
      A day all bright and fair!

    Lincoln and Hamlin, wise and great,
      Our star-lit standard bear
    Triumphant to the helm of State,
      And these their heralds are.

    They rise, from hamlet, city, town,
      From high-souled men and free,
    Who shout aloud as they strike down
      Misrule’s dark tyranny!

    From Bunker’s Hill and Lexington,
      Hark! how the anthems rise;
    From Groton’s heights and Stonington
      Their echoes reach the skies!

    They roll from the Atlantic shore,
      O’er mountain, plain, and glen,
    To where the vast Pacific’s roar
      Proclaims the loud Amen!

    From where Superior rolls her flood,
      From where Saint Lawrence flows,
    They peal along, o’er dale and wood,
      To where the orange grows.

    These shouts go up from men of might,
      Of heart and principle;
    Sure conquerors in a righteous fight,
      _Truth_ is invincible!

    Lincoln and Hamlin!—honest, great—
      The spangled banner bear
    In triumph to the helm of State!
      We _hail_ their entrance there!




CAMPAIGN SONG.

_Air_—“Hail to the Chief.”


    FREEMEN, the day of your triumph is dawning,
      Shake out the folds of your banner once more
    Join in the anthem that heralds the morning;
      See! the long night of oppression is o’er.
            Hark! from our native hills
            Comes there a shout that thrills
    Liberty’s temple from portal to dome.
            Glory to God on high!
            Union with Liberty,
    Finds in the hearts of our people a home.

    Burnish your armors like heroes in story,
      Sound the loud tocsin that calls to the war;
    Freedom enthroned in the land of her glory
      Bids you march on by the light of her star.
            Let the wild echo sweep
            Back from each mountain steep.
    Brave old Columbia joins in the fray,
            While with united voice
            Liberty’s sons rejoice
    In the proud triumph that waits them to-day.

    Then shall our country’s name shine through the ages,
      Bravely redeemed by the _men_ of her soil;
    Then shall the birthplace of heroes and sages
      Honor the brawny-armed servants of toil.
            Rally, young hearts and brave,
            Let your broad banner wave
    Over the nation from inland to sea.
            Hasten the coming time,
            When every land and clime
    Breaking their shackles shall march with the free.
                                                  R. M. N.




RIDDEN BY THE SLAVE POWER.

WRITTEN BY GEORGE W. PUTNAM.

_Tune_—“Benney Haven.”


    RIDDEN by the slave power,
      Crushed beneath the chain,
    Now is come our rising hour,
      Lo! we’re up again.
    And voices from the mountain height,
      Voices from the vale,
            Say to Freedom’s fearless host,
            There’s no such word as fail,
            There’s no such word as fail,
            Say to Freedom’s fearless host,
            There’s no such word as fail.

    Ay! we’re up to hurl the fiend
      From off the tyrant throne;
    To strike for man a mightier blow
      Than earth has ever known;
    To drag your code of whips and gyves
      Up to the light of day,
            And wash from our escutcheon’s front
            The bloody stain away,
            The bloody stain away,
            And wash from our escutcheon’s front
            The bloody stain away.

    Free to speak the burning truth,
      All fetterless the hand,
    Never shall the Yankee’s brow
      Bear the cursed brand.
    Send the gathering freemen’s shout
      Booming on the gale;
            Omnipotence is for us,
            There’s no such word as fail,
            There’s no such word as fail,
            Omnipotence is for us,
            There’s no such word as fail.

    They’re gathering on the mountain,
      They’re gathering on the plain,
    And ’neath the tramp of Freedom’s host
      The broad earth shakes again.
    And this their glorious rallying cry,
      Whose firm hearts never quail:
            God and the people! on for right,
            There’s no such word as fail,
            There’s no such word as fail,
            God and the people! on for right,
            There’s no such word as fail.




“VIVE LA HONEST ABE.”

A WIDE-AWAKE RALLYING SONG.

BY C. L. RUSSELL.

_Air_—“Vive la Companie.”


    REPUBLICANS, rally, our Union defend,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
    For the reign of “King James” must soon come to an end,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
        Then up, boys, wide awake, rally “Wide Awakes,”
        Up, boys, wide awake, rally “Wide Awakes,”
        One, two, three—hip, hip, hurrah!
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”

    If the signs of the times we rightly can trace,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
    “Honest Abe” is the man we shall put in his place,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
                      Then up, boys, etc.

    He’s been taken in hand by one Doctor “Covode,”
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
    And he’s putting J. B. over a very rough road,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
                      Then up, boys, etc.

    His Cooks and his Fowlers show up rather bad,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
    But how much per-centage has old Jimmy had?
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
                      Then up, boys, etc.

    There’s but one course for “Buck”—let him come to the scratch—
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
    Try the _Japanese process_ called “happy dispatch,”
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
                      Then up, boys, etc.

    From all places of trust the Locos we’ll rout,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
    On Lincoln’s good _rails_ we will ride them all out,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
                      Then up, boys, etc.

    “Honest Abe” shall take charge of the “Old Union Ship,”
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
    Send Doug., Bell, and Breck. on a “Salt River trip,”
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
                      Then up, boys, etc.

    Then rally, boys, rally, for “Abe of the West,”
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
    He’s a champion of freedom the truest and best,
                              Vive la “Honest Abe!”
                      Then up, boys, etc.




THE GATHERING OF THE REPUBLICAN ARMY.

_Air_—“Vilikins and his Dinah.”


    THE Republican hosts they are mustering strong,
    Come, gallants, and help swell this gathering throng;
    Old soldiers, your country demands that again
    You shall show to all tyrants the power of _free men_.
    Then up, sons of Freedom! Once more to the charge;
    Let your war-cry be “_Freedom!_” and no “Squatter” dodge;
    And loud let us shout o’er hill, mountain, and plain,
    Choose “honest Abe Lincoln,” and Hamlin of Maine.

    The ranks of our foes by dissensions are torn;
    Their leaders are doubtful, their hopes are forlorn;
    For they know well, no matter what efforts are made,
    They will surely be beaten by “honest old Abe.”
                          Then up, sons of Freedom, etc.

    Their once honored captain, Buchanan the first,
    Is now by their army most utterly cursed.
    On this single point they entirely agree,
    That of all their mean leaders the meanest is he.
                          Then up, sons of Freedom, etc.

    Then forward, brave comrades! the battle is near;
    Our friends are exultant, our enemies fear;
    Their troops from the charge of our squadrons shall fly,
    To rally no more at their old leader’s cry.
                          Then up, sons of Freedom, etc.




LINCOLN’S NOMINATION.

BY K. A. M.

_Air_—“Yankee Doodle.”


    AROUSE! my honest countrymen,
      Throughout this mighty nation,
    And let us give three hearty cheers
      For Lincoln’s nomination.

    Brave Hamlin, too, is qualified
      To fill the highest station;
    With “Abe” to steer, _we’ll man_ the Ship,
      The next Administration.

    The Democrats are looking on
      With dread anticipation,
    And at us hurl anathemas
      Of fierce vituperation.

    Their broken ranks they wish to fill,
      No matter from what nation;
    We hear them say, “Good fellow, Pat—
      You’ll have a situation.”

    But when election day is past,
      In vain you’ll search creation
    To find the friend that promised Pat
      Such great remuneration.

    Republicans, then hoist the flag—
      “No Slavery extension,”
    And plant it on our Capitol,
      In Abe’s administration.




FREEDOM’S CALL.


    OH! wake to the sound of our Nation’s appeal!
      ’Tis the loud voice of Freedom that calls!
    Shall her sons fall asleep with the rust on their steel,
    Shall the quick pulse of life no emotion reveal,
      While the slave-driver reigns in our Halls?

    ’Tis the voice of the brave who at Lexington bled,
      That calls on their sons to be brave!
    ’Tis the blood of our brethren at Leavenworth shed,
    ’Tis the life-stream that flowed from our Senator’s head,
      When our Sumner was beat’n as a slave.

    Shall the nation that gave to great Washington birth,
      And exults in the sound of his name,
    Shall the Freemen who boast of their valor and worth,
    Be the sport and the mock of a slaveholder’s mirth,
      When he gives Bunker Hill to the shame?

    No! a fame more exalted our Country awaits,
      While we honor the chief of our choice!
    Brave Lincoln shall stand at fair Liberty’s gate,
    And beat back the sword of the insolent fates,
      And the hearts of the Free shall rejoice!

    His crown with the gems of our love we impearl!
      To his worth and his valor we bow;
    O’er his head the proud Flag of the Free we unfurl,
    And a garland of glory shall gracefully curl
      In a wreath to adorn his fair brow;

    Then our land shall repose in the glorious light
      Of her fame and her liberty won!
    The Genius of Freedom shall stand on her height,
    And wave back the tempest of discord and night,
      With the clouds that obscure our bright sun.




HOPE FOR THE SLAVE.

BY J. J. H.

_Tune_—“Ellen Bayne.”


    MILLIONS lie bleeding on the Southern plains,
    Tyrants, unheeding, bind on their chains;
    Moaning in sorrow, toiling in their pain,
    Sighing for Liberty, but sighing in vain.
                Onward, then, true hearts and brave,
                Forge no chains for other slaves;
                Brothers, we our land must save
                From tyrants and chains.

    See the helpless mother, on the auction-block,
    Shrieking for her children! Hear the tyrants mock!
    See them torn asunder, ne’er to meet again!
    Gone to the rice-swamps—dragging their chains.
                              Onward, etc.

    The War-cry is sounding on our Northern hills,
    Free hearts are bounding—Liberty yet thrills.
    Screams our wild Eagle, soaring to the sky,
    God sent him here to live—our bird shall not die.
                              Onward, etc.




FREEMEN WIN WHEN LINCOLN LEADS,

_Air_—“Lutzow’s Wild Hunt.”


    OH, tell me, what spirit sweeps over the land,
        Uniting and rousing our numbers?
    And why does the North in full panoply stand,
        Like a giant aroused from long slumbers—
        Like a giant aroused from long slumbers?
    ’Twas a cry for aid that o’er us swept,
    They were murdering Kansas while we slept.

    But the North will not always submit to a wrong;
        Once roused from her sleep, she ne’er falters.
    To Kansas, despite the whole South, shall belong
        Free soil, and free speech, and free altars—
        Free soil, and free speech, and free altars.
    The cry of Freedom each free man heeds,
    And our cause must win, for Lincoln leads.




UNCLE SAM’S FARM.

BY JESSE.

    The bill! the bill! how my heart will thrill
    At the passage of the People’s Homestead Bill!


    OF all the mighty nations in the East or in the West,
    The glorious Yankee nation is the greatest and the best;
    We have room for all creation, and our banner is unfurled,
    With a general invitation to the people of the world.
          Then come along, come along, make no delay,
          Come from every nation, come from every way;
          Our lands they are broad enough, don’t feel alarm,
          For Uncle Sam is rich enough to give us all a farm.

    St. Lawrence is our Northern line, far’s her waters flow,
    And the Rio Grande our Southern bound, way down in Mexico;
    While from the Atlantic Ocean, where the sun begins to dawn,
    We’ll cross the Rocky Mountains far away to Oregon.
                              Then come along, etc.

    While the South shall raise the cotton, and the West the corn and pork,
    New England manufactures shall do up the finer work;
    For the deep and flowing water-falls that course along our hills,
    Are just the thing for washing sheep and driving cotton mills.
                              Then come along, etc.

    Our fathers gave us liberty, but little did they dream
    The grand results to follow in this mighty age of steam;
    Our mountains, lakes, and rivers are now in a blaze of fire,
    While we send the news by lightning on the Telegraphic wire.
                              Then come along, etc.

    While Europe’s in commotion, and her monarchs in a fret,
    We’re teaching them a lesson which they never can forget;
    And this they fast are learning, Uncle Sam is not a fool,
    For the people do their voting, and the children go to school.
                              Then come along, etc.

    The brave in every nation are joining heart and hand,
    And flocking to America, the real promised land;
    And Uncle Sam stands ready with a child upon each arm,
    To give them all a welcome to a lot upon his farm.
                              Then come along, etc.

    A welcome, warm and hearty, do we give the sons of toil,
    To come to the West and settle and labor on Free Soil;
    We’ve room enough and land enough, they needn’t feel alarmed—
    Oh! come to the land of Freedom and vote yourself a farm.
                              Then come along, etc.

    Yes! we’re bound to lead the nations, for our motto’s “_Go Ahead_,”
    And we’ll carry out the principles for which our fathers bled;
    No monopoly of Kings and Queens, but this is the Yankee plan,
    Free Trade to Emigration and Protection unto man.
                              Then come along, etc.

    We’ve a glorious Declaration to protect us in our rights,
    An instrument of Freedom, for the blacks as well as whites,
    And the day is surely coming when Liberty’s bright sun
    Shall shine with noonday splendor in the land of Washington.
                              Then come along, etc.




SONG OF FREEDOM.


    YE who dwell in quiet hamlets,
      Ye who crowd the busy ways—
    All who love this great Republic
      In these dark, imperiled days,
    Does your Freedom never seem
      Like the beauty of a dream?

    Must the lightning’s flash and thunder
      On our slumber glare and break,
    Ere from false and fleeting visions
      We to real danger wake?
    Must the earthquake’s heavy tread
      Crush us sleepers with the dead?

    Hear ye not succeeding ages,
      From their cloudy distance cry?
    See ye not the hands of nations
      Lifted toward the threat’ning sky?
    _Now or never_, rise and gain
      Freedom for this fair domain!

    We have vanquished foreign tyrants—
      Now the battle draws anear;
    Let not Despots have this boasting,
      That a Freeman knows to fear;
    By your Fathers’ patriot graves,
      Rise! nor be forever slaves!

    Speak! ye orators of Freemen,
      Let your thunder shake these plains;
    Write! ye editors of Freedom,
      Let your lightning rive these chains;
    Up! ye sons of Pilgrims, rise!
      Strike for Freedom, or she dies;

    Give this land to future ages
      _Free_, as God has made it free;
    Swear that not another acre
    Shall be cursed with Slavery;
      Strike for Freedom and for right,
      God himself is Freedom’s might.




THE “NEB-RASCALITY.”

AS SUNG BY THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY.


I.

_Air_—“Dandy Jim.”

    KIND friends, with your permission, I
      Will sing a few short stanzas,
    About this new “Nebraska Bill,”
      Including also Kansas;
    All how they had it “cut and dried,”
      To rush it through the Senate
    Before the people rallied, and
      Before they’d time to mend it.


II., III., IV.

_Air_—“Yankee Doodle.”

    Iniquity so very great,
      Of justice so defiant,
    Of course could only emanate
      From brain of mighty giant.
    This giant, now, is very small,
      As all of you do know, sirs;
    But then, there is no doubt at all
      That he expects to grow, sirs.
    There’s one thing more I ought to say,
      And that will make us even—
    It is to mention, by-the-way,
      The giant’s name is——Stephen.

              GIANT’S BASS-SOLO.

          “Fe, fi, fo, fum,
          I smell the blood of Free-dom;
          Fe, fi, fo, fum,
          Dead or alive, I’ll have some.”

    Oh, terribly the giant swore,
      With awful oaths and curses,
    And language such as I can not
      Engraft into my verses.
    There was a giant once before,
      And with a sling they slew him;
    That Stephen could be _slued_ with one,
      _No one_ would say who knew him.


V.

_Air_—“Burial of Sir John Moore.”

    ’Twas at the dead of night they met,
      (So I’m informed the case is,)
    Stephen in person leading on
      The army of “dough-faces.”
    They voted, at the dead of night.
      While all the land lay sleeping,
    That all our sacred, blood-bought rights
      Were not worth the keeping.


VI.

_Air_—“Yankee Doodle”—Double Quick Time.

    Oh! bless those old forefathers, in
      Their Continental “trowsers,”
    Who in their wisdom looked so far
      And organized two houses—
    So let them shout, their time is short,
      They’ll very soon be stiller—
    For in the house they’ll find a boy
      Called “Jack the Giant Killer.”


VII.

_Air_—“Scots Wha’ Ha’ Wi’ Wallace Bled.”

    And now, kind friends, for once and all
      Let’s swear upon the altar
    Of plighted faith and sacred truth,
      To fight and never falter;
    That Liberty and Human Rights
      Shall be a bright reality,
    And we’ll resist with all our might
      This monstrous Neb-rascality!




FREE SOIL CHORUS.

BY J. H.

_Tune_—“Auld Lang Syne.”


    ALL hail! ye friends of Liberty,
      Ye honest sons of toil;
    Come, let us raise a shout to-day
      For Freedom and Free Soil.
            For Freedom and Free Soil, my boys
              For Freedom and Free Soil;
            Ring out the shout to all about,
              For Freedom and Free Soil.

    We wage no bloody warfare here,
      But gladly would we toil,
    To show the South the matchless worth
      Of Freedom and Free Soil.
                        For Freedom, etc.

    Nor care we aught for party names,
      We ask not for the spoils;
    But what we’ll have is Liberty!
      For Freedom and Free Soil.
                        For Freedom, etc.

    Too long we’ve dwelt in party strife—
      ’Tis time to pour in oil;
    So here’s a dose for “Uncle Sam”
      Of Freedom and Free Soil.
                        For Freedom, etc.

    Our Southern neighbors feel our power,
      And gladly would recoil,
    But ’tis “_too late_”—the cry’s gone forth
      For Freedom and Free Soil.
                        For Freedom, etc.

    Then let opponents do their best
      Our spirits to embroil;
    No feuds shall e’er divide our ranks
      Till victory crowns Free Soil.
                        For Freedom, etc.

    They’ve called us “_sisslers_” long enough—
    We now begin to boil,
    And ’ere _November_ shall come round,
    We’ll cook them up Free Soil.
                        For Freedom, etc.

    Then let us sing God bless the free,
      The noble sons of toil,
    And let the shout ring all about,
      Of Freedom and Free Soil.
                        For Freedom, etc.




THE BAY STATE HURRAH.


    LINCOLN’S the chief to lead the way,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    The fire by night—the cloud by day,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    Mailed in truth and strong in hand,
      He’ll bring us to the Promised Land.
    Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!

    The ship of state, with tattered sail,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    Is madly driving ’fore the gale,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    He’ll soon repair her crippled form,
      And bring her safely through the storm.
                              Hurrah! etc.

    The sable flag that o’er us waves,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    Shall float no longer over slaves,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    From Kansas’ dark and bloody ground,
      To California’s farthest bound.
                              Hurrah! etc.

    Free speech LINCOLN will aye defend,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    And Slavery’s curse he’ll ne’er extend,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    He goes for Freedom’s holy cause,
      For equal rights and equal laws.
                              Hurrah! etc.

    Then let us all, with loud acclaim,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    Repeat the chorus of a name,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    A name at which the tyrant quails,
    A name which every good man hails—
      Lincoln! Lincoln! Lincoln! Lincoln!
          Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!




FOR LIBERTY.

_Air_—“Bruce’s Address.”


    FREEMEN! who have suffered long;
    Freemen! who have borne the wrong;
    Freemen! while ye yet are strong—
            Strike for Liberty.

    God is with you for the right,
    He will nerve your arms with might,
    Ye shall conquer in the fight—
            Strike for Victory.

    Marching in our fathers’ way,
    To the music freemen play,
    We shall see a glorious day
            When the free prevail.

    Sacred, holy is our cause,
    We maintain the outraged laws,
    We sustain dear Freedom’s cause,
            We can never fail.

    O’er us Freedom’s banners wave,
    Borne by leaders true and brave,
    Sworn their native land to save
            From dread Slavery.

    Freemen! who have suffered long;
    Freemen! who have borne the wrong;
    Freemen! while ye yet are strong—
            Strike for Liberty!




VOICE OF FREEDOM.

_Air_—“Auld Lang Syne.”


    THE voice of Freedom loudly calls
      On all the true and brave,
    From Slavery’s destroying hand
      Her fair domain to save.

    Arise and let my empire stretch
      From widening sea to sea,
    Her soil forever consecrate
      To blessed Liberty.

    Her banner is unfolded wide,
      Of red and purest white,
    Her lofty countenance divine
      Shines like her armor bright.

    America’s true-hearted sons
      Her warriors brave shall be;
    Her battle-shout victorious,
      Union and Liberty.

    Let freemen hasten to her side,
      And raise her banner high,
    Free speech beneath our domes to have,
      Free soil beneath our sky.

    Let all our country’s wide area
      A land of freedom be,
    And let this circled Union cry,
      Free Soil and Liberty!




THE CAUSE OF LIBERTY.

_Tune_—“Watchman, Tell us of the Night.”


    THE glorious cause is moving on,
    The cause once led by Washington!
    The cause that made our fathers free,
    The cause of glorious Liberty!
    Our ranks now swell, our votes now tell,
    On Freedom’s cause we love so well!
    And Slavery’s power, now waning fast,
    In midnight shade will soon be cast.
        Then labor, labor, labor still,
        Each vote declares a Freeman’s will;
        Soon Heaven’s own gift the slave’s will be,
        The boon of glorious Liberty.

    Tell us no more of Slavery’s power,
    ’Tis weakness when compared with ours.
    ’Tis Satan’s power condemned to die,
    Freedom is strengthened from on High.
    Tyrants now quail, their courage fails;
    But ours, inspired by Heaven, prevails.
    Thrice armed are we in righteousness,
    And this our foes themselves confess.
        Then onward, onward, onward still,
        See how our ranks with Freemen fill!
        Soon o’er the world will all men see
        Triumphant glorious liberty.

    For years have Freemen bravely stood,
    And breasted persecution’s flood;
    With justice armed, they’ve kept the field,
    No threats or flattery made them yield.
    Their flag, so fair, still floats in air;
    And mark! next year ’twill still be there,
    Inscribed in letters bold and free,
    With one great idea, Liberty!
        Then sound it, sound it, sound it strong,
        _That Freedom’s right, and Slavery’s wrong_.
        And soon this truth will all men see,
        And vote for glorious Liberty.




LINCOLN, THE PRIDE OF THE NATION.

_Tune_—“The Red, White, and Blue.”


    FOR Lincoln, the choice of the nation,
      The pride of the fearless and free,
    We’ll drink to his health and his station,
      Whatever that relation may be.
    His heart beats for Freedom remaining
      On the soil where our Liberty grew—
    For our brethren in Slavery sustaining,
      The free flag—the Red, White, and Blue.

    There are lands where the millions are yearning
      For Freedom from Tyranny’s chain;
    For ours let our efforts be turning,
      To shield her from Slavery’s stain.
    For Lincoln, he stands with devotion,
      And swears to the Union he’s true;
    And he’ll struggle from ocean to ocean,
      To plant there the Red, White, and Blue.

    No sectional feuds shall e’er sever
      The bands which our forefathers wrought;
    The Union forever and ever!
      Unsullied, unstained, and unbought
    Is the watchword from Lincoln we borrow,
      And he stands by his promise so true;
    Then who will our leader not follow,
      When his flag is the Red, White, and Blue?

    Our voices are joined then for Union,
      The stars and stripes are above;
    Huzza all for Lincoln and Hamlin!
      Huzza for the men that we love!
    The old Union ship, when well guided,
      ’Twill be found that the timbers are true;
    And soon will the storm have subsided
      That threatened the Red, White, and Blue.




RALLYING SONG.


    THE war drums are beating;
      Prepare for the fight!
    The people are gathering
      In strength and in might;
    Fling out your broad banner
      Against the blue sky
    With Lincoln and Hamlin
      We’ll conquer or die.

    The clarion is sounding,
      From inland to shore;
    Your sword and your lances
      Must slumber no more;
    The slave-driving minions,
      See, see, how they fly!
    With Lincoln and Hamlin
      We’ll conquer or die.




ABE LINCOLN IS THE MAN.

BY S. C. MILLER.

_Air_—“Dearest May.”


    FROM granite hills and mountain walls,
      From prairie, wood, and plain,
    Fair Freedom’s voice our nation calls
      Our freedom to maintain.
              Our country calls old Abraham:
              Now beat him, if you can;
              Abe Lincoln will be President—
              _Abe Lincoln is the man_.

    Each, gale that sweeps our country through
      Is laden with the call;
    Old Abe and Hamlin will go through—
      Sham Democrats must fall.
              Our country calls, etc.

    A monument is towering high,
      In Baltimore erected,
    In memory of _two candidates_
      That soon will be rejected.
              Our country calls, etc.

    The _happy pair_ will run in style—
    That “_conflict_” makes them foam;
    They’ll have a chance to run awhile,
    And then to stay at home.
              Our country calls, etc.

    _Our_ answer to the call will be,
      Abe Lincoln is elected;
    He’ll rout Disunion Chivalry,
      Already much dejected.
              Our country calls, etc.




THE FATE OF A FOWLER.

[Showing how it is best to be off with the Old Love before you are on
with the New.]

_Tune_—“Lord Lovel.”


    A FOWLER one morning a poaching would go,
      “I’m in for a bagful,” quoth he;
    So in Uncle Sam’s manor he shot high and low,
    And helped himself plentiful-ly, lee, lee,
          And helped himself plentiful-ly.

    Just then there chanced to be cocking his eye
      Uncle Sam’s head-keeper, J. B.,
    Who caught the bold Fowler poaching so sly,
      All under the greenwood tree, tree, tree,
          All under the greenwood tree.

    “Oh, what are you doing?” the head-keeper cried,
      “You son of a gun!” cried he;
    “I’ll have you taken, and bound, and tied,
    By the laws of this great countree, ree, ree,
          By the laws of this great countree.”

    “Hush! hush! not a word!” the Fowler he said,
      “You’ll do no such a thing,” said he;
    “For out of this game my friends shall be fed,
    And you shall be first, d’ye see? see? see?
          And you shall be first, d’ye see?”

    So a bargain was straightway struck between
      The Fowler and sly J. B.,
    And many a year, in the forest green,
      They feasted right loving-ly, lee, lee,
          They feasted right loving-ly.

    But after a while the keeper grew old,
      “And not so fit is he,”
    Said Uncle Sam, “as the Douglas bold,
      My forester for to be, be, be,
          My forester for to be.”

    So the Fowler bethought him to take his game
      No longer to ancient J. B.,
    And straight to the friends of the Douglas he came,
      As they gathered in Charleston cit-y, tee, tee,
          As they gathered in Charleston cit-y.

    “Ho! ho!” quoth the keeper, “if that’s your way,
      My day is not out,” quoth he;
    And straight to his master he said his say,
      With a semblance of great hones-ty, tee, tee,
          With a semblance of great hones-ty.

    “A Fowler your manor is poaching upon!”
      “Very well, then,” said Samuel, said he:
    “Go seize the vile caitiff, Isaiah and John,
    And hang him on yonder tree, tree, tree,
          And hang him on yonder tree!”

    So the Fowler was caught at his poaching at last,
      And the moral is plain to see:
    Be off with old friendships ere new ones are fast,
      And look out for the wrath of J. B., B., B.,
          And look out for the wrath of J. B.




RALLYING SONG OF ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB.

“FREE TERRITORIES FOR FREE MEN.”

_Tune_—“Koch-e-lunk.”


    COME all ye who work like brothers,
      Come from store, from shop, from hall,
    Pass the watchword to the others,
      Don’t you hear our rallying call?
          Freedom for our Western prairies,
          Freedom to Pacific’s shores,
          Freedom gave our land to freemen,
          Free it shall be evermore.

    Rally once more round the banner,
      In the fight be true and strong,
    Keeping step with freemen’s music,
      With one voice we’ll shout our song—
                                  Freedom, etc.

    Let the past be now forgotten,
      While sweet Freedom’s foes we rout;
    All we ask of each one coming,
      Vote for Freedom, work and shout—
                                  Freedom, etc.

    Have you heard from old New Hampshire,
      How the strikers struck up there;
    Dealing deadly blows to Slavery,
      Singing in the evening air—
                                  Freedom, etc.

    Then Connecticut right nobly
      Next sustained the glorious fight,
    Conquered all the foes of Freedom,
      Shouting till the morning light—
                                  Freedom, etc.

    Shall the Empire State be wanting
      When the others stand so true?
    Then, let each one do his duty,
      Work there is, for us and you.
                                  Freedom, etc.

    Come, then, Freemen, come and join us,
      You who never came before,
    All we ask is, vote for Freedom,
      Till it reigns from shore to shore.
                                  Freedom, etc.
                                         W. B. H.




THE LIBERTY ARMY.

BY HUTCHINSON.

_Tune_—“Axes to Grind.”


    WE’RE coming, we’re coming, the fearless and free!
    like the winds of the desert, the waves of the sea!
    True sons of brave sires, who battled of yore,
    When England’s proud lion ran wild on our shore,
    When England’s proud lion ran wild on our shore.
      We’re coming, we’re coming, from mountain and glen,
      With hearts to do battle for Freedom again,
      And Slavery is trembling as trembled before
      The oppression which fled from our fathers of yore,
      The oppression which fled from our fathers of yore.

    We’re coming, we’re coming, with banners unfurled!
    Our motto is Freedom—“our country, the World!”
    Our watch-word is Liberty—_Tyrants, beware!_
    For the Liberty army will bring you despair,
    For the Liberty army will bring you despair.
      We’re coming, we’re coming, we’ll come from afar,
      Our standard we’ll nail to Humanity’s car.
      With shouting we’ll raise it, in triumph to wave,
      The glory of Freedom, the hope of the Slave,
      The glory of Freedom, the hope of the Slave.

    Then arouse ye, brave hearts, to the rescue come on!
    The man-stealing army we’ll surely put down!
    They’re crushing their millions, but soon they must yield,
    For Freemen have risen and taken the field,
    For Freemen have risen and taken the field.
      Then arouse ye! arouse ye! the fearless and free!
      Like the winds of the desert, the waves of the sea.
      Let our country throughout to each ocean’s shore
      Resound with a glorious triumph once more,
      Resound with a glorious triumph once more.




HAVE YOU HEARD THE LOUD ALARM?

_Tune_—“Granite State.”


    FROM the green hills of New England,
    From the Western slopes and prairies,
    From the mines of Pennsylvania,
      Have you heard the loud alarm?
    For the war note has been sounded,
    And the Locos stand astounded,
    While their rule, in ruin founded,
      Sinks before the people’s arm.

    Steeped in infamous corruption,
    Sold to sugar-cane and cotton,
    Lo! a nation’s heart is rotten,
      And the vampires suck her blood;
    O’er our broad and _free_ dominions
    Rules the Cotton king whose minions
    Clip our fearless eagle’s pinions,
      And invite Oppression’s reign.

    We have chosen us a leader,
    And with “resolute endeavor”
    Let us strike at once—or never,
      For the land we love so well;
    With a victory before us,
    And a stainless banner o’er us,
    Let us shout the joyful chorus,
      Ringing loud the Freedom bell.

    We believe as did the heroes
    Of our noble Revolution,
    That our noble constitution,
      Is the guide to Liberty;
    And we go for non-extension,
    In the field, as in convention,
    And rejoice in the declension
      Of the curse of all the free.

    With a patriot heart to guide us,
    All the _rail_ing accusations,
    Honest Abraham occasions,
      Greet our ears as pleasant chimes;
    For a son of honest labor,
    Calling every man his neighbor,
    Grasping Freedom’s trenchant saber,
      Stands the hero of his times.

    Come, then, friends of working-classes—
    Every State beneath its banners—
    And with shouts and loud hosannahs
      Raise the people’s standard high;
    Roll along the mighty chorus,
    And the reeling foe before us
    Never more shall triumph o’er us,
      For a brighter day is nigh.




HARK! YE FREEMEN.

BY REV. JAMES CRUIKSHANKS.

_Tune_—“Brace’s Address.”


    HARK! ye freemen, hark the strain,
    Echoing o’er Columbia’s plain;
    Up, and strike with all your main,
            Lay the tyrant low.
    Banners waving all around,
    Beckoning with joyous sound,
    Wake convulsions ’neath the ground,
            _Burdened with our foe._

    Now a hotter contest comes,
    Rousing freemen from their homes,
    Leaving wives and little ones,
            For your country’s cause.
    Gird the armor then aright,
    Let your words be ordered right,
    Battle in this glorious fight,
            Guarding Freedom’s laws.

    Lincoln, then, our Leader be,
    Sturdy hero for the free,
    Follow him to victory,
            And give him the power.
    Slavery’s chains shall soon be broke—
    Soon the whip and galling yoke
    Shall be moored by Freedom’s _stroke_,
            _Then the glorious hour_.

    Lincoln, then, shall be the song
    Of a free and joyous throng—
    He shall wave the scepter long
            From the nation’s throne.
    We shall labor, toil, and pray
    For the dawn of Freedom’s day—
    Ceasing not till we can say,
            Victory is won!




FROM BAD TO WORSE.


    WITH corruption the land is declared to be foul,
      And the public has long been a growler;
    But what will it say when it learns the sad fact
      That corruption has just turned out FOWLER.




THE MARCH OF THE FREE.

BY HON. HORACE GREELEY.


    HARK! an earthquake’s deep roar o’er the country is booming,
          But no ruin behind it is seen;
    With joy each heart swelling, each visage illuming,
          Earth brightens where’er it hath been.
    The West’s gallant spirits first thrilled to its pealing,
          As onward it roll’d to the sea;
    Now the North, East, and Center the impulse are feeling,
          ’Tis the rising and march of the Free!

    No portents precede, and no true hearts deplore it,
          No bright stars wane dim in the sky;
    Misrule’s cohorts faint are alone swept before it,
          And quail as its blast hurtles by;
    Corruption’s shrunk bands to their caverns are driven;
          As chaff in the tempest they flee,
    While full on the ear, ’neath the glad smile of heaven,
          Break the shouts and the march of the Free!

    No banners are lifted, no trumpets are sounding,
          As that host in its triumph moves on;
    And the burst of deep joy from each valley resounding,
          Tells how tearless the victory’s won.
    As trembles the earth to its mighty emotion,
          More firm grows each Patriot knee;
    While People and States, from the Lakes to the Ocean,
          Proudly join in the march of the Free!

    From thy borders, Penobscot, their shout has ascended;
          Connecticut’s tide bears it on;
    Till with thine, Mississippi, its surgings are blended,
          And Roanoke recalls glories gone;
    Thou, placid Ohio, art thrilled with the spirit
          Waked from Michigan’s marge to the sea,
    Where our own noble Hudson so proudly shall hear it,
          And joy in the march of the Free!




OUR FLAG IS THERE.


    OUR flag is there—the starry flag
      Our stout forefathers gave,
    O’er Freedom’s home, Free Soil, Free Men,
      In triumph long to wave!
    Yet all its bright and shining folds
      Foul Slavery seeks to stain,
    Till Freedom’s host is called to fight
      Her battle o’er again!
    And fight we will, from vale to hill,
      The battle-cry is heard,
    Till with Free Speech, Free Soil, Free Men,
      The nation’s heart is stirred.

    Oh, blessed Freedom! peerless boon!
      Worth all the world besides;
    For thee, how many hero souls
      Have gladly bled and died!
    And ’tis for thee, dear Liberty,
      We gather in this fight,
    To save thy flag from stain and shame,
      And Slavery’s awful might!
    Free Speech, Free Labor, and Free Soil—
      Lincoln and Eight unrolled,
    Are mottoed there for Freedom’s host,
      On every shining fold.

    Our Flag is there! oh, bright and fair,
      It leads the millions on,
    Till Slavery’s surging waves be stayed,
      And Freedom’s battle won!
    And valor’s arm and beauty’s smile
      Shall bid it proudly wave,
    Till not a rood of Freedom’s soil
      Is cursed by chain or slave!
    Free speech, Free presses, far and wide,
      Be these the battle cry,
    Till Freedom’s flag in Freedom’s cause
      Is crowned with victory!




LINCOLN AND VICTORY!


    MEN of the North, who remember
      The deeds of your sires, ever glorious,
      Join in our pæan victorious,
          The pæan of Liberty!
    Hark! on the gales of November,
      Millions of voices are ringing,
      Glorious the song they are singing—
          Lincoln and Victory!
                          Hurrah!
      Join the great chorus they’re singing,
      Lincoln and Victory!

    Come from your forest-clad mountains,
      Come from the fields of your tillage,
      Come from city and village—
          Join the great host of the free
    As from their cavernous fountains
      Roll the deep floods to the ocean,
      Join the great army in motion,
          Marching to Victory!
                          Hurrah!
      Echo from ocean to ocean,
      Lincoln and Victory!

    Far in the West rolls the thunder,
      The tumult of battle is raging,
      Where the sons of Freedom are waging
          Warfare with Slavery!
    Struggling with foes who would bind them,
      Lo! they implore you to stay them!
      Will you to Slavery betray them
          No! no! they shall be free!
                          Hurrah!
      Swear that you’ll never betray them—
      Never! they shall be free!

    Men of the North, who remember
      The deeds of our sires, ever glorious,
      Join in our pæan victorious,
          The pæan of Liberty!
    Hark! on the gales of November,
      Millions of voices are ringing,
      Glorious the song they are singing—
          Lincoln and Victory!
                          Hurrah!
      Join the great chorus they’re singing,
      Lincoln and Victory!




“WIDE AWAKE.”

RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO THE NEW HAVEN “WIDE AWAKES.”

BY EDWARD E. ROGERS.

_Tune_—“Bruce’s Address.”


    “WIDE AWAKE” to foeman’s snare,
    “Wide Awake” Truth’s torch to bear,
    “Wide Awake” to do and dare,
          In the cause we love.
    Press we on with fearless tread,
    By the love of freedom led,
    “Heart within and God o’erhead,
          We shall conquerors prove.”

    “Freedom!” ’tis our banner cry;
    Shout it forth exultingly,
    Lift the snowy banner high,
          Bear it proudly on.
    Fight we must with patriot zeal,
    Every arm all nerved with steel,
    Nor forsake the battle-field
          Till the victory’s won.

    Lincoln, brave, and true, and strong,
    Leads our sturdy band along;
    Hail him, boys, with cheer and song,
          Lincoln brave and true!
    Of our chieftain proud are we,
    Led by him, we’ll gallantly
    Fight our way to Victory,
          All our foes subdue.

    “Wide Awake,” yes, “_Wide Awake!_”
    Struggling on for duty’s sake,
    Rest nor slumber will we take
          Till our work is done.
    In the mighty God we trust,
    For our cause is right and just;
    Conquer, boys, we _must_, we _must_—
          Victory _must_ be won!




WE’LL SEND BUCHANAN HOME.

_Air_—“Few Days.”


    OLD “Honest Abe” we will elect
      In a few days—few days;
    The Loco-focos we’ll reject,
      And send Buchanan home.
            For we will wait no longer
            Than a few days, a few days,
            For we can wait no longer
            To send Buchanan home.

    Buchanan is in great distress
      These few days—few days;
    His grief he scarcely can express,
      Because he’s going home.
            For we will wait no longer, etc.

    Abe Lincoln will be President
      In a few days—few days;
    To him the people will present
      Buchanan’s present home.
            For we will wait no longer, etc.

    November it is near at hand,
      In a few days—few days;
    The people, then, throughout the land,
      Will send “Old Jimmy” home.
            For they will wait no longer, etc.

    The people they are not afraid,
      In a few days—few days,
    To take for Vice, with “Honest Abe,”
      A man from Maine, his home.
            For they will wait no longer, etc.

    Then shout for Abe of Illinois,
      For a few days—few days;
    For Hamlin too your lungs employ,
      For they shan’t stay at home.
            For we will wait no longer, etc.

    The fourth of March will soon be here,
      In a few days—few days;
    The time for “Honest Abe” is near,
      To enter his new home.
            For we will wait no longer, etc.

    For Lincoln and for Hamlin, too,
      For a few days—few days,
    We’ll work with hearts both warm and true,
      To those they love at home,
            For we will wait no longer, etc.

    And when the vict’ry has been won,
      In a few days—few days,
    And Abe is safe in Washington,
      His Presidential home.
            Then we need wait no longer,
              Than a few days—few days,
            Then we need wait no longer,
              For happy times at home.




RALLYING SONG.


    AWAKE and raise the battle shout,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    And shake the starry banner out,
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
    List, rallying braves, a scream is heard—
    ’Tis Freedom’s eagle, dauntless bird;
      Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
          He calls to victory—
        Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!
        He calls to victory—

    From West to East the war-cry sweeps—Hurrah!
    And echoes from our Northern steeps—Hurrah!
      And proudly waves the flag we bear,
    For every star is blazing there—Hurrah!
      Each star is blazing there.

    Our candidates are in the field—Hurrah!
    And see! the awe-struck foemen yield—Hurrah!
      “On to the White House,” is the cry;
    For Union and for Liberty—Hurrah!
      For blood-bought liberty.

    Brave Lincoln leads the mighty host—Hurrah!
    The people’s pride—the people’s boast—Hurrah!
      And Illinois clasps hands with Maine,
    And bids Oppression cease its reign—Hurrah!
      Forever cease its reign.

    Unconquerable as the waves—Hurrah!
    We’ll bury all the fed’ral knaves—Hurrah!
      With “Honest Abe” to lead the van,
    Bushwackers, stop us if you can—Hurrah!
      Yes, stop us—if you can.

    Three hearty cheers, boys, for our cause—Hurrah!
    Three for the Union and the Laws—Hurrah!
      Now forward! and the day is won,
    For Illinois’ undaunted son—Hurrah!
      For Illinois’ brave son.




LINCOLN.


    HE comes, he comes, the fearless man;
      Throw all your banners forth—
    Chicago bids him lead the van
      Of a united North.
          Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
          Let shouts for Lincoln ring;
          In Union rights let all unite
          To hail our Prairie King.

    A nation’s hand has wreathed his brow
      With stars her valor won;
    To Union’s quick-step, marching now,
      Comes Freedom’s Western Son.
                  Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah! etc.

    Farewell to cliques that would disown
      The people’s high behest—
    That people’s waiting hand shall crown
      The champion of the West.
                  Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah! etc.

    The people’s rights, the people’s voice,
      His battle-cry shall be—
    A nation, in Chicago’s choice,
      Hails Freedom’s sovereignty.
                  Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah! etc.

    The equal rights of North and South
      He fearless doth proclaim—
    He’ll tear disunion’s flag from both,
      And blast each traitor’s name.
                  Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah! etc.

    Then ’neath the stripes Time’s hand hath blent,
      ’Neath stars our fathers won,
    Will make our Lincoln President
      In Eighteen Sixty-one.
                  Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah! etc.




SONG.

_Air_—“Dixey’s Land.”


    FRIENDS of Freedom, hear the story,
    How the Freemen in their glory
                  Went away, went away,
                  Went away, went away,
    To the lakes, with the intention
    Of attending the Convention,
                  Far away, far away,
                  Far away, far away.
        Because the people do demand
                  A hero, a hero,
        As leader of their Spartan band,
        They’ll take him from his “prairie-land,”
                  Away, away, away,
    Across the line of Dixon.

    At Chicago they selected
    Lincoln, who will be elected,
                  Abraham, Abraham,
                  Abraham, Abraham.
    As Honest Abe the people know him,
    And all his actions go to show him
                  A true man, a true man,
                  A true man, a true man.
            Because the people do demand, etc.

    Friends of “Union” never falter,
    Loco-focos can not alter,
                  Or delay, or delay,
                  Or delay, or delay,
    Our country’s laws or constitution,
    By traitorous threats or persecution,
                  A single day, a single day,
                  A single day, a single day.
            Because the people do demand, etc.

    Yet there is another reason,
    Why the traitor and his treason
                  Must decay, must decay,
                  Must decay, must decay:
    Lincoln’s friend and his protector,
    His political director,
                  Was Harry Clay, Harry Clay,
                  Harry Clay, Harry Clay.
            Because the people do demand, etc.

    Friends of Liberty, we ask you,
    And we will not overtask you,
                  Come away! come away!
                  Come away! come away!
    Leave the Loco Southern section,
    Save your country next election,
                  Election day, election day,
                  Election day, election day.
            Because the people do demand, etc.




CAMPAIGN SONG.

_Air_—“Rosin the Bow.”


    THE Campaign commences most nobly,
      The battle has fairly begun,
    And every new struggle proves doubly
      That “Buck” and his minions are done.

    With the East and the West linked together,
      Our candidates never can fail,
    For the weight of a slave aint a feather
      When Freemen get into the scale.

    Every friend of our own “Gallant Harry,
      The Star of the West,” has declared
    The coming election they’ll carry,
      For every true man is prepared.

    For “Protection” the party will rally,
      “Free homes for the homeless,” as well,
    Then we’ll hear every mountain and valley
      Ring forth to “Free Trade” its death-knell.

    For Lincoln the party’s united,
      For Hamlin the people are true,
    The watch-fires all have been lighted,
      As once for “Old Tippecanoe.”

    Then bring out the music and banners,
      The “_fence rails_” and orators too,
    And we’ll teach Loco-focos good manners,
      As we did with “Old Tippecanoe.”




FREEMEN, BANISH ALL YOUR FEARS.

BY R. M’N.

_Air_—“Scots Wha Hae.”


    FREEMEN, banish all your fears,
    Lo! the promised morn appears,
    Long foretold by Freedom’s seers—
      Lincoln takes the field.
    Victory flashes in his eye,
    Speaks in every battle-cry,
    Rings along the vaulted sky,
      Blazes on his shield.

    See the Western prairies flame
    At the mention of his name;
    Hear a people’s loud acclaim,
      Conscious of their might;
    Then behold the guilty foe,
    Glutted with a nation’s woe—
    Patriots, do you fear them?—No.
      God will speed the right.

    Standing on the sacred sod,
    Where our fearless fathers trod;
    Must _we_ tamely kiss the rod,
      Bowing low the knee?
    Foemen of your country’s weal,
    Bid your pampered hirelings kneel,
    Crush _them_ with your iron heel—
      We, at least, are free.

    And by all we love on earth,
    By the land that gave us birth,
    Friends of toil and honest worth,
      Like our honored sires,
    Heart to heart, and hand in hand,
    We will march, a conquering band,
    Till the altars of our land
      Glow with Freedom’s fires.




“WIDE-AWAKE CLUB” SONG.

_Tune_—“A Wet Sheet and a Flowing Sea.”


    OH, hear you not the wild huzzas
      That come from every State?
    For honest Uncle Abraham,
      The People’s candidate?
    He is our choice, our nominee,
      A self-made man, and true;
    We’ll show the Democrats this fall
      What honest Abe can do.
          Then give us Abe, and Hamlin, too,
            To guide our gallant ship,
          With Seward, Sumner, Chase, and Clay,
            And then a merry trip.

    Come, Granny Buck, you’d better go
      While you can see the way,
    For I fear your nerves won’t stand the shock
      On next election day.
    So take your hat—what’s that you say?
      You are so cold you shiver—
    Why, that’s the way you feel, my dear,
      When sailing up Salt River.
          Then give us Abe, and Hamlin, too, etc.

    I hear that Dug. is half inclined
      To give us all leg-bail,
    Preferring exercise on foot
      To riding on a rail.
    For Abe has one already mauled
      Upon the White House plan;
    If once Dug. gets astride of that,
      He is a used-up man.
          Then give us Abe, and Hamlin, too, etc.

    Come rally with us here to-night,
      Be “Wide-Awake” for fun,
    For we shall surely win the day
      Before old sixty-one.
    From North to South, from East to West,
      Our power shall be felt;
    I tell you fight with all your might,
      For Abe shall have the _Belt_.
          Then give us Abe, and Hamlin, too,
            To guide our gallant ship,
          With Seward, Sumner, Chase, and Clay,
            And then a merry trip.




A JOLLY GOOD CREW WE’LL HAVE.

BY W. S. SANFORD.

_Tune_—“Little More Cider.”


    OH, we will have a merry time
      When, at the polls this fall,
    We vote for “honest Abraham,”
      Who is so slim and tall.
    It don’t make any difference,
      He’ll steer the “Ship of State;”
    A noble captain he will be,
      And Hamlin will be mate.
          Oh, a jolly good crew we’ll have,
          A jolly good crew we’ll have—
          A jolly good crew we’ll have on board
          This staunch old Ship of State.

    We’ve shipp’d until the voyage is through—
      We never shall back out;
    The “Little Giant” of the West
      We certainly shall rout:
    And then there’s Breckenridge and Bell,
      Fine fellows they may be—
    They’ll wish they had’nt run _agin_
      This rail-splitter you’ll see.
                  Oh, a jolly good crew, etc.

    Then wide awake, the cry will be
      For “Abe” and Hamlin too,
    For we’re the boys that can excel,
      And that we’re bound to do.
    They talk about the “Squatter clause,”
      That’s “played out” long ago—
    It’s used for home-con-sump-shi-on,
      And there it is no go.
                  Oh, a jolly good crew, etc.




A Valuable Book for every Family.

EXTEMPORANEOUS DISCOURSES.

BY REV. E. H. CHAPIN, D.D.

Reported as Delivered, and Revised and Corrected by the Author.

    _First Series._      _One Volume, 12mo._      _Price $1._


THE subjects treated in these able and truly eloquent discourses are:

    God’s Requirements,
    A New Heart,
    Love of the World,
    Longing for Righteousness,
    Life in Christ,
    The Pattern in the Mount,
    Faith and its Aspirations,
    Conceptions of Religion,
    The Bread of Life,
    Joy of the Angels,
    Honoring Christ,
    Spiritual Resurrection,
    Wayside Opportunities,
    The Blessing of the Merciful,
    Christian Humility, and
    Seeing Darkly.

“One peculiarity of these Discourses is, that they present no distinct
characteristics which would render them objectionable to Christians
of any denomination, while the matter they contain can not fail to
meet with the highest approval of all truly Christian minds and
hearts.”—_Life Illustrated._

“They abound in bursts of spontaneous eloquence which it is not easy
to preserve under the process of elaborate composition.”—_New York
Tribune._

“They are valuable to all mankind in one respect, that they not only
teach spiritual truth, but touch the sources of spiritual joy. The
power of some preachers paralyzes, that of Mr. Chapin inspires. All
the strength he possesses he communicates; he not only announces good
principles, but quickens good motives.”—_Boston Transcript._

“They are remarkable performances, admirable in spirit, full of
earnestness, persuasive, and powerful.”—_The Welcome Guest, Boston._

“Almost every page we have turned might be cited in illustration of the
first qualities of extemporaneous address.”—_Christian Examiner._

“We are quite sure that his extemporaneous efforts are not inferior in
their effect upon the hearer to his more carefully prepared discourses;
and we should not be surprised if it proved that in their printed form
they were more sought for and read than his other works.”—_Albion._


_Sent by Mail, postpaid, on receipt of $1._

    O. HUTCHINSON,

    272 Greenwich St New York.




The New York Tribune.

Prepare for the Great Political Campaign.—Inducements to Clubs.—Now is
the Time to Subscribe.


THE TRIBUNE—now more than nineteen years old, and having over a quarter
of a million subscribers, or constant purchasers, diffused through
every State and Territory of our Union—will continue in essence what
it has been—the earnest champion of Liberty, Progress, and of whatever
will conduce to our national growth in virtue, industry, knowledge, and
prosperity.


THE NEW YORK DAILY TRIBUNE

is printed on a large imperial sheet, and published every morning and
evening (Sundays excepted). It contains Editorials on the topics of
the times, employing a large corps of the best newspaper writers of
the day; Domestic and Foreign Correspondence; Proceedings of Congress;
Reports of Lectures; City News; Cattle, Horse, and Produce Markets;
Reviews of Books; Literary Intelligence; Papers on Mechanics and the
Arts, Cookery, etc., etc. We strive to make THE TRIBUNE a newspaper to
meet the wants of the public—its Telegraphic news alone costing over
$15,000 per annum.

_TERMS._—THE DAILY TRIBUNE is mailed to subscribers at $6 per annum, in
advance; $3 for six months.


THE NEW YORK SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE

is published every TUESDAY and FRIDAY, and contains all the Editorials
of the Daily, with the Cattle, Horse, and General Markets, reliably
reported expressly for THE TRIBUNE; Notices of New Inventions; Foreign
and Domestic Correspondence; Articles on Cookery; and during the
Sessions of Congress it contains a summary of Congressional doings,
with the more important speeches. We shall, as heretofore, make the
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE a literary as well as political newspaper, and we
are determined that it shall remain in the front rank of family papers.

TERMS.

    Per Copy, one year           =$3 00=
    Two Copies, one year          =5 00=
    Five Copies, one year       =$11 25=
    Ten do., _to one address_    =20 00=

Any person sending us a club of twenty, or over, will be entitled to
an extra copy. For a club of forty, we will send the Daily Tribune one
year.


THE NEW YORK WEEKLY TRIBUNE,

a large, eight-page paper for the country, is published every Saturday,
and contains Editorials on the important topics of the times; the news
of the week; interesting correspondence from all parts of the world;
the New York Cattle, Horse, and Produce Markets; interesting and
reliable Political, Mechanical, and Agricultural articles; Papers on
Cookery, etc., etc.

We shall, during this year, as hitherto, constantly labor to improve
the quality of the instructive entertainment afforded by THE WEEKLY
TRIBUNE, which, we intend, shall continue to be the best Family Weekly
Newspaper published in the world. We consider the Cattle Market Reports
alone richly worth to cattle-raisers a year’s subscription price.

TERMS.

    One Copy, one year                                =$2=
    Three Copies, one year                             =5=
    Five Copies, one year                              =8=
    Ten Copies, one year                              =12=
    Twenty Copies, _to one address_                   =20=
    Twenty Copies, _to address of each subscriber_    =25=

Any person sending us a club of twenty or more will be entitled to an
extra copy. For a club of forty we will send THE SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE;
and for a club of One Hundred THE DAILY TRIBUNE will be sent gratis.

Subscriptions may commence at any time. Terms always cash in advance.
All letters to be addressed to

HORACE GREELEY & CO., Tribune Buildings, Nassau St., N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Obvious punctuation errors repaired. Song layouts were adjusted where
an anomaly occurred such as on page 20, where the last line of the
third verse was not indented, but the rest of the final lines were. To
match the rest, this line was indented.

Advertisement, inside front cover, “so” changed to “to” (as for
customers to)

Page 7, “eucourage” changed to “encourage” (encourage the development)

Page 24, “aud” changed to “and” in final line of first verse (We’re for
Freedom and Reform)

Page 45, “o’en” changed to “o’er” (Soon o’er the world)

Page 65, “nations’s” changed to “nation’s” (A nation’s hand has)





End of Project Gutenberg's Connecticut Wide Awake Songster, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONNECTICUT WIDE AWAKE SONGSTER ***

***** This file should be named 51226-0.txt or 51226-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/2/2/51226/

Produced by Emmy, MFR and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

